>> Stewart: ON THIS EDITION FOR
SUNDAY, OCTOBER 30:
JUST OVER ONE WEEK TO GO.
THE PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES
PRESS THEIR SUPPORTERS TO TURN
OUT.
AND IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT,
FLORIDA'S YOUNGEST VOTERS: HOW
THE MILLENNIAL GENERATION RATES
THE RACE FOR THE WHITE HOUSE.
NEXT ON "PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND."
>>FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS
AT LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
ALISON STEWART.
>> Stewart: GOOD EVENING AND
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
WITH NINE DAYS UNTIL ELECTION
DAY, DEMOCRAT HILLARY CLINTON
AND REPUBLICAN DONALD TRUMP ARE
MAKING THEIR CLOSING ARGUMENTS
TO SUPPORTERS AND ANY UNDECIDED
VOTERS LEFT IN THE BATTLEGROUND
STATES GETTING MOST OF THEIR
PERSONAL ATTENTION.
BUT THE SPECTER OF THE REVIVED
F.B.I. PROBE INTO CLINTON'S USE
OF A PRIVATE EMAIL SERVER WHILE
SECRETARY OF STATE IS LOOMING IN
THE BACKGROUND.
SPEAKING AT A PREDOMINANTLY
AFRICAN-AMERICAN CHURCH IN FORT
LAUDERDALE, FLORIDA, TODAY,
CLINTON DID NOT ADDRESS THE
EMAIL PROBE.
SHE DID, HOWEVER, PROMISE HER
POLICIES WOULD STAY THE COURSE
OF THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION.
>> AND I'M GOING TO DEFEND
PRESIDENT OBAMA'S LEGACY.
(CHEERS AND APPLAUSE)
AND ESPECIALLY HIS AFFORDABLE
CARE ACT, WHICH GAVE 20 MILLION
PEOPLE THE CHANCE TO GET HEALTH
INSURANCE!
>> Stewart: THE CLINTON CAMPAIGN
IS PRESSING F.B.I. DIRECTOR
JAMES COMEY TO SHARE MORE
INFORMATION ABOUT A TROVE OF
EMAILS DISCOVERED ON A COMPUTER
BELONGING TO THE ESTRANGED
HUSBAND OF CLINTON AIDE HUMA
ABEDIN-- FORMER CONGRESSMAN
ANTHONY WEINER, WHO'S UNDER
FEDERAL INVESTIGATION FOR
ALLEGEDLY SEXTING WITH A MINOR.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS REPORTS
THE F.B.I. KNEW ABOUT THE EMAILS
A FEW WEEKS AGO, AND THE WALL
STREET JOURNAL REPORTS THAT
AGENTS ARE "PREPARING TO SCOUR"
APPROXIMATELY 650,000 OF THEM
FOR LINKS TO CLINTON'S SERVER.
TODAY, DEMOCRATIC VICE
PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE TIM KAINE
CITED OTHER NEWS REPORTS SAYING
THE F.B.I. DIDN'T OBTAIN A
WARRANT BEFORE DISCLOSING THEIR
EXISTENCE TO CONGRESS ON
FRIDAY, AND THAT THE F.B.I.
DOESN'T KNOW WHETHER ANY EMAILS
CONTAIN CLASSIFIED INFORMATION.
>> AS FAR AS WE KNOW NOW,
DIRECTOR COMEY KNOWS NOTHING
ABOUT THE CONTENT OF THESE
EMAILS.
WE DON'T KNOW WHETHER THEY'RE TO
OR FROM HILLARY AT ALL.
>> Stewart: TRUMP ADDRESSED THE
CONTROVERSY WHILE CAMPAIGNING IN
NEVADA TODAY.
>> WE NEVER THOUGHT WE WERE
GOING TO SAY THANK YOU TO
ANTHONY WEINER.
(CHEERS AND APPLAUSE)
>> Stewart: IN U.S. ELECTIONS,
THE TERM "OCTOBER SURPRISE" HAS
COME TO MEAN AN EVENT IN THE
CLOSING WEEKS OR DAYS OF A
PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN THAT COULD
AFFECT-- OR EVEN ALTER-- THE
OUTCOME.
THE DEVELOPING STORY ABOUT THE
F.B.I. REVIVING ITS
INVESTIGATION INTO HILLARY
CLINTON'S PRIVATE EMAIL SERVER
COULD QUALIFY.
FOR MORE ON THE "OCTOBER
SURPRISE" PHENOMENON, I AM
JOINED FROM SANTA BARBARA,
CALIFORNIA, BY "NEWSHOUR
WEEKEND" SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT
JEFF GREENFIELD.
BIT OF HISTORICAL CONTEXT.
WHEN HAS AN OCTOBER SURPRISE
AFFECTED THE RESULTS OF A
PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION?
>> WELL, CAN YOU GO BACK TO
1960, WHETHER JOHN AND ROBERT
KENNEDY GOT MARTIN LUTHER KING
OUT OF A RURAL GEORGIA JAIL
WHERE HIS FAMILY FEARED FOR HIS
LIFE.
KING'S FATHER HAD ENDORSED
NIXON, THERE WAS SPIKE IN BIG
CITIES AND VERY CLOSE STATES
LIKE NEW JERSEY, ILLINOIS, MIGHT
HAVE CHANGED BECAUSE OF THAT
EVENT; YOU COULD POINT TO HENRY
KISSINGER, NIXON WAS PROBABLY
HEADED FOR A LANDSLIDE.
THE NEWS OF GEORGE W. BUSH'S
YOUTHFUL DRUNK DRIVING ARRESTS,
KERRY SAID AN OSAMA BIN LADEN
VIDEO IN 2004 HURT HIM.
THE MOST ON POINT EXAMPLE OF
EXAMPLE WAS BACK IN '92 WHEN A
SPECIAL PROSECUTOR, LOOKING AT
REAGAN'S DEALINGS WITH IRAN,
POINTED A FINGER TO GEORGE BUSH,
WHO WAS UP FOR REELECTION,
CITING HE MIGHT HAVE KNOWN, HE
WAS VERY ANGRY ABOUT THAT.
WE NEVER KNOW WHEN THESE
OCTOBER SURPRISES COULD HAVE
MADE A DIFFERENCE BUT THOSE ARE
PLAUSIBLE CANDIDATES.
>> THERE ARE CONTENDERS, AND
COULD THERE BE OCTOBER SURPRISES
THIS TIME AROUND, PLURAL?
>> YOU KNOW YOU CAN START WITH
THAT ACCESS HOLLYWOOD TAPE.
YOU CAN TALK ABOUT THE WIKILEAKS
DRIP DRIP DRIP THAT SEEMED TO
RAISE QUESTIONS ABOUT THE BE
CLINTON FOUNDATION.
CERTAINLY FBI DIRECTOR COMEY'S
STATEMENT SO CLOSE TO ELECTION
COULD QUALIFY.
BUT WHO IS TO SAY WE COULDN'T
HAVE NOVEMBER SURPRISES?
WE HAVE A WEEK TO GO.
>> REVEALING E-MAILS ON HUMA
ABEDIN'S COMPUTER, NOT MUCH MORE
INFORMATION.
WHAT POSITION DID THAT PUT
CANDIDATE CLINTON IN IN TERMS OF
HER RESPONSE?
>> IT PUTS THAT CAMPAIGN IN AN
EXTREMELY DIFFICULTY POSITION.
THEY DON'T KNOW WHAT THEY'RE
DEALING WITH.
APART FROM RAISING THE
TEMPERATURE ON THEIR CRITICISMS,
THEY'RE DEMANDING FOR A FULL
ACCOUNT OF THESE E-MAILS
IMMEDIATELY.
BUT IT'S LESS SO MUCH WHAT
HAPPENS TO HER, HARD TO IMAGINE
IF SOMEBODY WOULD CHANGE THEIR
MINDS IF THEY THOUGHT ABOUT
VOTING FOR CLINTON BEFORE.
WHAT THIS DOES IS TO ENCOURAGE
THE TRUMP CAMPAIGN.
BECAUSE REPUBLICANS LOOKING AT
POLLS, WE COULD GO WITH THINKING
MAYBE I WON'T BOTHER, LOOKS LIKE
IT'S ALL OVER.
WHAT SHE HAS TO LOOK IS LESS
EROSION OF HER SUPPORT THAN
INCREASE IN TRUMP'S SUPPORT.
>> LET'S LOOK AT THE DOWN BALLOT
RACES, WHICH ONES STAND OUT TO
YOU?
>> WELL, THE HALF DOZEN SENATE
RACES LITERALLY FROM ONE END OF
THE COUNTRY TO THE OTHER, FROM
NEW HAMPSHIRE TO PENNSYLVANIA TO
NORTH CAROLINA, WISCONSIN,
MISSOURI, NEVADA, I MIGHT BE
LEAVING OUT ONE, THE CONTROL OF
THE SENATE IN MY VIEW IS JUST
ABOUT AS IMPORTANT AS WHO WINS
THE WHITE HOUSE.
THERE IS ONE WAY DOWN BALLOT IN
MARICOPA COUNTY, JOE ARPAIO, HE
HAS BEEN THE SHERIFF FOR 20
YEARS AND LOOKS LIKE HE'S
TRAILING BADLY.
THE LOSS OF THAT ELECTION BY JOE
ARPAIO WOULD BE VERY
DISAPPOINTING OR VERY
GRATIFYING.
>> Stewart: HE IS LOOKING FOR
A SEVENTH TERM AS SHERIFF, HE IS
84 YEARS OLD.
>> THAT'S THE ONE.
CONGRESSIONAL RATIONS, DARRYL
ISSA, IN CALIFORNIA, THAT WAS
ANOTHER ONE IF HE WERE TO LOSE
IT WOULD NOT BREAK A LOT OF
DEMOCRATIC HEARTHS.
>> AND WISCONSIN HAS GOTTEN
SURPRISINGLY TIGHT, CORRECT?
>> ALL ALONG THE ASSUMPTION WAS
THAT SENATOR JOHNSON WAS GOING
TO LOSE TO THE MAN HE DEFEATED
SIX YEARS AGO, RUSS FEINGOLD.
FOR SOME REASON THE CAMPAIGN HAS
BEEN PUTTING A LOT OF MONEY INTO
THAT STATE, I BELIEVE SECRETARY
CLINTON IS VISITING THAT STATE.
THE ONE IN NEW HAMPSHIRE BETWEEN
GOVERNOR AND THE INCUMBENT
SENATOR, ANY ONE OF THEM COULD
TIP BALANCE OF POWER, AFFECTING
EVERYTHING FROM THE SUPREME
COURT TO THE NEW PRESIDENT'S
LEGISLATIVE AGENDA.
WE MAY BE UP LATE ELECTION
NIGHT.
>> Stewart: ALL RIGHT I'LL GET
THE COFFEE.
JEFF GREENFIELD, THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Stewart: THE VAST POOL OF
ELIGIBLE VOTERS NOW 18 TO 34
YEARS OLD ARE PART OF THE
MILLENNIAL GENERATION-- THE
ROUGHLY 83 MILLION AMERICANS
BORN BETWEEN 1982 AND 2000 WHO
ARE NOW AMERICA'S LARGEST
GENERATION.
IN TONIGHT'S SIGNATURE SEGMENT,
NEWSHOUR WEEKEND'S CHRISTOPHER
BOOKER WENT TO THE PERENNIAL
BATTLEGROUND STATE OF FLORIDA TO
FIND OUT HOW MILLENNIALS, WHO
COULD DETERMINE THE WINNER
THERE, ARE REACTING TO AND
PARTICIPATING IN THE
PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN.
>> Reporter: AT THE UNIVERSITY
OF SOUTH FLORIDA, IN TAMPA, IT
WOULD BE DIFFICULT TO FIND A
YOUNG PERSON WHO HADN'T BEEN
TOLD BY CANDIDATES, CANVASSERS,
OR A FELLOW STUDENTS THAT THEIR
VOTES ARE NEEDED AND THAT THEIR
VOTES ARE IMPORTANT.
>> IF YOU ARE INTERESTED YOU CAN
GO TO HILLARY.COM WEBSITE AND
THEY SEND YOU EMAILS WHEN THEY
ARE IN TOWN OR AT THE EVENT.
>> Reporter: USF AND ITS 40,000
STUDENTS ARE ON THE RECEIVING
END OF A RELENTLESS POLITICAL
COURTSHIP, OCCURRING AT COLLEGE
CAMPUSES ACROSS THE BATTLEGROUND
STATES.
BOTH DONALD TRUMP AND HILLARY
CLINTON HAVE VISITED.
BOTH KNOWING MILLENNIALS IN
FLORIDA NOW OUTNUMBER BABY
BOOMERS.
THERE ARE OVER A QUARTER MILLION
MILLENNIALS REGISTERED TO VOTE
HERE IN TAMPA AND SURROUNDING
HILLSBOROUGH COUNTY.
THEY ARE NOT ONLY THE MOST
DIVERSE VOTING BLOC IN FLORIDA,
THEY ARE ALSO THE MOST
INDEPENDENT.
WHILE 38% ARE REGISTERED
DEMOCRAT AND 23% ARE REGISTERED
REPUBLICAN, A SIZABLE 35% OF
VOTERS 18 TO 35 ARE REGISTERED
INDEPENDENT, WHAT FLORIDA CALLS"
NO PARTY AFFILIATION."
>> WE'VE HAD RECORD NUMBERS OF
VOTER REGISTRATIONS ON CAMPUS.
THERE'S BEEN AT LEAST, AT ONE
POINT IN TIME, FIVE
ORGANIZATIONS TRYING TO REGISTER
PEOPLE TO VOTE.
>> Reporter: MARIANNE MENDOZA IS
ONE OF THOSE REGISTERED
INDEPENDENTS.
2016 IS HER FIRST TIME VOTING IN
A PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION.
>> Reporter: WHAT'S THE
POLITICAL MOOD LIKE ON CAMPUS?
>> IT'S REALLY DIVIDED.
I WOULD SAY...
>> Reporter: MENDOZA, A JUNIOR
MAJORING IN POLITICAL SCIENCE,
HELPED DISTRIBUTE AND COLLECT
BALLOTS FOR THE UNIVERSITY'S
FINAL STRAW POLL ORGANIZED BY
STUDENT GOVERNMENT AND OTHER
CAMPUS GROUPS.
CLINTON RECEIVED 53% OF THE VOTE
AND TRUMP, 25%.
THE REMAINING 22% WENT TO EITHER
LIBERTARIAN GARY JOHNSON, GREEN
PARTY CANDIDATE JILL STEIN OR
OTHER CANDIDATES.
>> TO SAY THAT THEY DON'T LIKE
THE TWO-PARTY SYSTEM AS IT
STANDS TODAY IS PUTTING IT
MILDLY.
>> Reporter: SUSAN MACMANUS IS A
POLITICAL SCIENCE PROFESSOR AT
USF.
>> THE BIGGEST QUESTION MARK OF
MILLENNIALS, THERE ARE TWO,
ACTUALLY.
ONE IS, WILL THEY TURN OUT?
THE SECOND PART IS, WILL THEY
LEAN AS HEAVILY DEMOCRAT AS THEY
HAVE IN THE LAST TWO ELECTIONS,
WHERE PRESIDENT OBAMA WAS A
CANDIDATE?
>> Reporter: ON THIS CAMPUS, THE
OUTREACH BY THE DEMOCRATS IS A
BIT LIKE A HYBRID AUTOMOBILE, A
COMBINATION OF OLD FASHIONED
CAMPAIGN CANVASSING AND NEW
COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGIES.
>> TACTICALLY, THERE'S REALLY,
LIKE, NO SPECIAL SAUCE.
THERE IS NO SECRET.
WE JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT
WE ARE TALKING TO YOUNG PEOPLE
WHEREVER THEY'RE AT.
>> Reporter: KUNOOR OJHA IS THE
NATIONAL STUDENT ORGANIZING
DIRECTOR FOR THE CLINTON
CAMPAIGN.
ON THE FINAL DAY OF FLORIDA
VOTER REGISTRATION, THE CLINTON
CAMP ENLISTED ACTRESS DANAI
GURIRA, BEST KNOWN FOR HER PART
ON THE HIT TV SHOW "THE WALKING
DEAD."
>> OBVIOUSLY VOTER REGISTRATION
IS SUPER, SUPER IMPORTANT.
BUT WE'RE ALSO MAKING SURE THAT
WE'RE COMMUNICATING ONLINE,
WHERE YOUNG PEOPLE ARE GETTING
MOST OF THEIR NEWS.
>> Reporter: OJHA, WHO WORKED
FOR VERMONT SENATOR BERNIE
SANDERS DURING THE DEMOCRATIC
PRIMARIES, SAYS SHE JOINED THE
CLINTON TEAM, BECAUSE IT ADOPTED
ISSUES CENTRAL TO THE SANDERS
CAMPAIGN, LIKE A $15 AN HOUR
MINIMUM WAGE OR FREE PUBLIC
COLLEGE TUITION FOR MIDDLE CLASS
FAMILIES.
>> IT REALLY IS ABOUT THE
ISSUES.
THIS IS THE MOST PROGRESSIVE
PLATFORM THAT THE DEMOCRATIC
PARTY HAS EVER SEEN.
PART OF THAT WAS BECAUSE OF
NEGOTIATIONS BETWEEN SENATOR
SANDERS AND SECRETARY CLINTON.
BUT A LOT OF THAT WAS, YOU KNOW,
DRIVEN BY YOUNG PEOPLE.
THEY WERE A HUGE PART OF HIS
BASE.
AND THE FACT THAT THERE ISSUES
WERE, YOU KNOW, CODIFIED IN THE
PARTY PLATFORM REALLY, REALLY
MEANT A LOT TO THEM.
>> Reporter: WE REACHED OUT TO
THE TRUMP CAMPAIGN ABOUT ITS
EFFORTS TO APPEAL TO
MILLENNIALS, BUT NO ONE WAS MADE
AVAILABLE.
USF COLLEGE REPUBLICAN CHAIRMAN
CHRIS HAPPEL SAYS THE VERY
NATURE OF TRUMP'S CANDIDACY IS
ATTRACTING YOUNG VOTERS.
>> WELL, I THINK HE'S BROUGHT A
LOT OF PEOPLE WHO WOULD NOT EVEN
CONSIDER VOTING REPUBLICAN TO
OUR SIDE.
THEY UNDERSTAND THAT WASHINGTON
IS BROKEN, AND THEY WANT SOMEONE
WHO CAN GO IN AND NOT JUST BE
LIKE, THE TYPICAL POLITICIAN,
WHO WILL GO IN AND SAY HOPE AND
CHANGE DURING THE ELECTION, AND
THEN JUST SIT IN OFFICE AND DO
NOTHING.
THEY WANT SOMEONE WHO THEY CAN
BELIEVE WILL GO IN THERE, AND
TRY AND ACTUALLY DO SOMETHING.
>> Reporter: WHILE HAPPEL
SUPPORTS TRUMP, HE CONCEDES THAT
HE STRUGGLES WITH THE REPUBLICAN
PARTY LABEL.
>> I'M MORE ECONOMICS AND
FOREIGN POLICY AND IMMIGRATION,
THAT'S KIND OF HOW I VOTE.
I DON'T LIKE IDENTIFYING MYSELF
AS A MEMBER OF A PARTY, 'CAUSE I
THINK I HAVE A LOT OF MIXED
BELIEFS WITHIN BEING A
CONSERVATIVE.
SO LIKE A LOT OF MILLENNIALS, I
REALLY COULDN'T CARE LESS ABOUT
WHAT HAPPENS WITH GAY MARRIAGE,
BECAUSE I JUST DON'T THINK THE
GOVERNMENT SHOULD BE INVOLVED IN
GENERAL, WHICH IS DIFFERENT FROM
THE NATIONAL REPUBLICAN PARTY.
>> Reporter: WHAT DO YOU THINK
THE REPUBLICAN PARTY HAS TO DO
TO EVOLVE IN ORDER TO GROW?
>> I THINK WE HAVE TO DO A
BETTER JOB OF REACHING OUT ON
SOCIAL MEDIA, AND JUST APPEALING
TO THAT VOTER BLOCK RATHER THAN,
LIKE, THE TYPICAL PARTY MEMBER,
WHO'S A BABY BOOMER AND VOTES
REPUBLICAN EVERY ELECTION.
THE DEMOCRATIC PARTY HAS BEEN
DOING IT REALLY WELL FOR A LONG
TIME, AND HILLARY CLINTON'S
DOING IT AGAIN.
I MEAN, EVERY TIME I GO ON
YOUTUBE, IT'S A HILLARY CLINTON
AD BEFORE THE VIDEO THAT I'M
TRYING TO WATCH.
>> Reporter: BUT UNMATCHED
SOCIAL MEDIA MIGHT IS OF LITTLE
CONCERN TO REGISTERED REPUBLICAN
AND FIRST TIME VOTER NOEL
CANTRELL.
DO YOU THINK YOUR DECISION TO
SUPPORT DONALD TRUMP WAS DRIVEN
MORE BY THE CANDIDATE OR BY THE
ISSUES?
>> BY THE ISSUES, YES.
HE CAUSED ME TO GET INVOLVED IN
POLITICS, BECAUSE HE'S AN
OUTSIDER, AND THAT'S ONE THING
I REALLY DO LIKE ABOUT HIM IS
THAT HE IS HE MATCHES UP WITH
MORE OF THE REPUBLICAN VALUES
THAN, YOU KNOW, LIBERAL VALUES.
WE NEED TO FOCUS ON AMERICA.
AND WE NEED TO HELP OURSELVES
FIRST, BECAUSE OUR COUNTRY'S
GOING DOWN LATELY.
IT'S JUST, LIKE, IF YOU THINK
ABOUT IT WITH AN AIRPLANE, HOW
THEY SAY, "YOU NEED TO PUT ON
YOUR OXYGEN MASK BEFORE YOU PUT
ON SOMEONE ELSE'S.'
>> Reporter: HAVE YOU FOUND
YOURSELF HAVING TO DEFEND HIM
AND YOUR SUPPORT FOR HIM?
>> YES, I HAVE. YES.
>> Reporter: AND SO WHAT DO YOU
USUALLY SAY?
>> FROM THE OTHER STUDENTS.
I TELL THEM, "YOU KNOW, I CAN'T
DEFEND EVERYTHING HE SAYS.
HE'S NOT THE BEST CANDIDATE, BUT
HE'S THE CANDIDATE WE HAVE.
SO WE NEED TO SUPPORT HIM.'
>> Reporter: IF DONALD TRUMP
LOSES, WHAT DO YOU THINK HAPPENS
TO YOU AS A PARTICIPANT IN THE
POLITICAL PROCESS?
>> I THINK RIGHT NOW IF HILLARY
CLINTON WINS THIS ELECTION, NEXT
ELECTION THERE WILL BE EVEN A
BIGGER MOVEMENT, BECAUSE IT'S
BEEN THE SAME-OLD, SAME-OLD FOR
A WHILE.
AND PEOPLE ARE READY FOR A
CHANGE.
>> Reporter: USF GRADUATE AHMAD
SAADALDIN SAYS HE'S NOT WILLING
TO WAIT UNTIL 2020.
HE'S VOTING FOR GREEN PARTY
NOMINEE JILL STEIN, AS NEITHER
THE REPUBLICAN NOR THE DEMOCRAT
APPEAL TO HIM.
>> THESE CANNOT BE OUR ONLY TWO
OPTIONS.
WHEN WE GO TO THE GROCERY STORE,
THERE ARE A HUNDRED BRANDS OF
CEREAL.
THERE'S A CEREAL AISLE, OKAY?
BUT FOR PRESIDENT, IT'S LIKE WE
ONLY CONSIDER TWO BRANDS, RED OR
BLUE. AND I THINK THAT'S, THAT'S
DONE FOR.
AMERICANS DON'T, YOU CAN SEE IT
IN THE POLLS, AMERICANS WANT A
CHANGE."
>> Reporter: NO ONE FROM THE
GARY JOHNSON CAMPAIGN RESPONDED
TO OUR REQUESTS FOR COMMENT.
>> SO THAT BRINGS ME TO A GOOD
QUESTION THAT Y'ALL SHOULD
DISCUSS.
>> Reporter: EACH ELECTION
CYCLE, PROFESSOR MACMANUS
REQUIRES STUDENTS TO VOLUNTEER
AT LEAST 20 HOURS FOR A LOCAL,
STATE, OR NATIONAL CAMPAIGN.
>> ANY CANDIDATE WHO COMES IN,
OR A CANDIDATE REPRESENTATIVE
THAT COMES IN AND WANTS TO MAKE
AN APPEAL FOR VOLUNTEERS FOR MY
CLASS.
IF THEY DON'T TALK ABOUT ISSUES,
THEY'RE OUT OF THE PICTURE.
>> Reporter: SARA GUERRERO, A
SOPHOMORE IN MACMANUS' CLASS
REGISTERED AS A REPUBLICAN
EARLIER THIS YEAR TO VOTE FOR
HOME STATE SENATOR MARCO RUBIO
IN FLORIDA'S PRESIDENTIAL
PRIMARY, AND SHE INTERNED FOR
THE STATE REPUBLICAN PARTY.
>> I REALLY DID NOT THINK TRUMP
WOULD WIN THE NOMINATION.
I WENT TO MY BOSS AND I WAS,
LIKE, "HEY, LIKE, LOOK, LIKE, I
LOVE THIS JOB. I LOVE ORGANIZING
EVENTS.
I LOVE TALKING TO PEOPLE, YOU
KNOW I AGREE WITH ON ABSOLUTELY
ANYTHING."
SO I QUIT THAT JOB, AND IT WAS
FUNNY, HE SAYS TO ME, HE GOES,
"YOU KNOW, GOOD LUCK, YOU KNOW,
IN POLITICS YOU'RE NEVER GONNA
FIND A CANDIDATE THAT YOU AGREE
WITH ENTIRELY."
AND I'M, LIKE, "OKAY, WELL IT'S
NOT TRUMP SO."
>> Reporter: TRUMP'S PROMISE TO
DEPORT 11 MILLION UNDOCUMENTED
IMMIGRANTS AND BUILD A WALL
ALONG THE US BORDER WITH MEXICO
DROVE HER FROM THE REPUBLICAN
PARTY.
GUERRERO MOVED FROM COLOMBIA TO
FLORIDA WHEN SHE WAS THREE, AND
THEN SHE AND HER PARENTS BECAME
US CITIZENS.
>> HILLARY CLINTON WAS NOT MY
TOP PICK IT'S STRATEGIC VOTING
AT THIS POINT.
I'M DEDICATING MY ENTIRE LIFE TO
EITHER UNDOING WHAT TRUMP DOES
WITH IMMIGRATION OR FURTHERING
WHAT HILLARY CLINTON DOES.
SOCIALLY, LIKE THAT'S WHAT
MATTERS TO ME NOW.
IMMIGRATION REFORM, THAT'S IT
FOR ME.
>> Reporter: DO YOU THINK
THERE'S ANYTHING THE REPUBLICAN
PARTY COULD DO TO BRING YOU BACK
TO THE PARTY?
>> NOT ALIENATE, LIKE, AN
ENTIRE MINORITY.
OKAY, ME AS, LIKE, A LATINO,
FEMALE, MILLENNIAL, IT'S HARD
FOR ME TO EVEN EXPLAIN WHY I
WOULD BE A REPUBLICAN.
I MEAN, WHY WOULD I?
BUT I FEEL LIKE I MORALLY LEAN
DEMOCRAT AND THEN, LIKE,
ECONOMICALLY LEAN REPUBLICAN.
SO WE'LL SEE.
>> Stewart: CENTRAL ITALY HAS
BEEN SHAKEN AGAIN, THIS TIME BY
THE COUNTRY'S STRONGEST
EARTHQUAKE IN 36 YEARS.
TODAY'S MAGNITUDE 6.6 QUAKE
FURTHER DAMAGED BUILDINGS IN THE
MOUNTAINOUS REGION THAT WAS ALSO
STRUCK BY A MAJOR EARTHQUAKE IN
AUGUST THAT LEFT ALMOST 300
PEOPLE DEAD.
NO FATALITIES ARE REPORTED
TODAY.
TODAY'S QUAKE WAS CENTERED NEAR
THE HISTORIC CITY OF NORCIA AND
DESTROYED THE 14th CENTURY
BASILICA OF ST. BENEDICT.
ITN'S OLIVIA KINSLEY HAS MORE.
>> NUNS STILL WEARING THEIR
SLIPPERS COME RUNNING FROM
WITHIN THE NARROW STREETS OF
NORCIA.
THEIR ESCAPE JUST AFTER THE
EARTHQUAKE HIT WAS RECORDED LIVE
ON ITALIAN TELEVISION.
ONE WOMAN HAS TO BE CARRIED TO
THE SAFETY OF THE SQUARE.
>> BUILDINGS HAVE BEEN
COLLAPSING THROUGH THE MORNING
LEAVING CLOUDS OF DUST ARISING
ABOVE THE TREE TOPS.
IT'S A DISASTER, ONE MAN CRIES,
LOOKING UP TO THE HUGE HOLE IN
THE FRONT OF THIS ANCIENT
BUILDING.
HE SAYS, IT'S THE END OF THE
WORLD.
MORE AND MORE PEOPLE EMERGE FROM
THE ALLEYWAYS BUT CARRYING WHAT
THEY CAN.
THIS MAN WAS TREATED FOR A CUT
TO HIS HAND AND AROUND THE
REGION OTHERS HAVE BEEN TAKEN TO
HOSPITAL.
LOCAL AUTHORITIES SAY THAT SO
FAR SIX PEOPLE ARE KNOWN TO HAVE
BEEN INJURED.
THIS REGION OF ITALY WAS ALREADY
REELING FROM A SERIES OF LARGE
QUAKES INCLUDING TWO ON
WEDNESDAY AND IT IS ALSO JUST
TWO MONTHS SINCE 300 PEOPLE WERE
KILLED BY A QUAKE THAT LEVELED
SEVERAL SMALL TOWNS.
THIS ONE WILL LEAVE MANY PEOPLE
HOMELESS.
IN HIS WEEKLY ANGELES PRAYER,
THE POPE HAD A PRAYER FOR THOSE
AFFECTED.
THIS MORNING THERE WAS A STRONG
TREMOR HE SAID, I PRAY FOR THE
INJURED AND FOR THE FAMILIES WHO
HAVE SUFFERED DAMAGE.
AND FOR THE PEOPLE INVOLVED IN
RESCUE AND ASSISTANCE.
AT LEAST 100,000 PEOPLE ARE
EXPECTED TO BE EVACUATED FROM
THE AFFECTED AREAS.
THE ITALIAN GOVERNMENT HAS
ALREADY PROMISED TO REBUILD THE
WORST-HIT TOWNS.
IN NORCIA THOSE TRAPPED IN THE
SQUARE WILL NEED OUTSIDE HELP TO
REMOVAL RUBBLE AND CREATE SAFE
PATHWAYS OUT, UNTIL IT COMES
THEY WAIT AND THEY PRAY.
>> SEE PHOTOS
SEE PHOTOS OF ITALY'S STRONGEST
EARTHQUAKE IN 36 YEARS.
VISIT www.pbs.org/newshour.
>> Stewart: THE EUROPEAN UNION
AND CANADA HAVE SIGNED A
LANDMARK FREE TRADE AGREEMENT
THAT COULD SET THE STAGE FOR A
SIMILAR DEAL WITH THE UNITED
STATES.
THE "COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC AND
TRADE AGREEMENT" WAS SIGNED IN
BRUSSELS TODAY BY EUROPEAN
LEADERS AND CANADIAN PRIME
MINISTER JUSTIN TRUDEAU.
IT IS MEANT TO REMOVE ALMOST ALL
TARIFFS THE E.U. AND CANADA
IMPOSE ON EACH OTHER.
THE E.U. PREDICTS THE PACT WILL
INCREASE TRADE VOLUME WITH
CANADA BY 20%.
THE DEAL HAS BEEN IN THE WORKS
FOR EIGHT YEARS AND REQUIRED
UNANIMOUS APPROVAL BY ALL 28
NATIONS IN THE E.U.
BUT IT STILL NEEDS TO BE
RATIFIED BY E.U. ROPE'S NATIONAL
AND REGIONAL PARLIAMENTS, TO
TAKE FULL EFFECT.
OPPONENTS SAY THE DEAL GIVES
MULTINATIONAL COMPANIES TOO MUCH
POWER AND COULD JEOPARDIZE
ENVIRONMENTAL SAFETY STANDARDS.
EUROPEAN OFFICIALS SAY TALKS
OVER A SIMILAR TRADE PACT WITH
THE U.S. WILL WAIT UNTIL
PRESIDENT OBAMA'S SUCCESSOR
TAKES OFFICE.
NATIVE AMERICAN LEADERS IN NORTH
DAKOTA ARE VOWING TO CAMP OUT
THROUGH THE WINTER IN PROTEST OF
A NEW OIL PIPELINE.
THOUGH THE PIPELINE WOULD RUN
OUTSIDE THE "STANDING ROCK
SIOUX" RESERVATION, IT WOULD RUN
UNDERNEATH ITS WATER SOURCE.
TRIBAL LEADERS ALSO FEAR IT
WOULD THREATEN SACRED BURIAL
SITES.
ABOUT 200 PROTESTERS STAGED A
PEACEFUL PRAYER VIGIL YESTERDAY
NEAR THE CONSTRUCTION SITE WHERE
POLICE ARRESTED AT LEAST 142
PEOPLE ON THURSDAY AND FRIDAY.
SINCE AUGUST, NATIVE AMERICANS
AND THEIR SUPPORTERS HAVE
CAMPAIGNED AGAINST A PLANNED $4
BILLION, 1,200 MILE LONG
PIPELINE THAT WOULD CARRY CRUDE
OIL FROM THE BAKKEN REGION OF
NORTH DAKOTA TO REFINERIES ON
THE COAST OF THE GULF OF MEXICO.
THE IRAQI MILITARY SAID TODAY
40-THOUSAND SOLDIERS, POLICE,
AND SHIITE MILITIA MEMBERS HAVE
JOINED TOGETHER TO ENCIRCLE THE
COUNTRY'S SECOND LARGEST CITY--
MOSUL-- AND LIBERATE IT FROM
CONTROL OF ISIS.
IN THE CONTINUATION OF A TWO
WEEK OFFENSIVE, MILITIAS FOUGHT
SOUTHWEST OF MOSUL AIMING TO
BLOCK ISIS FIGHTERS FROM
RETREATING TO STRONGHOLDS IN
NEIGHBORING SYRIA.
IN BAGHDAD, FIVE SEPARATE
EXPLOSIONS TODAY TARGETED
PREDOMINANTLY SHIITE
NEIGHBORHOODS, KILLING AT LEAST
17 PEOPLE AND LEAVING DOZENS
WOUNDED.
THERE WAS NO IMMEDIATE CLAIM OF
RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ATTACKS,
WHICH STRUCK SEVERAL MARKETS.
A JOINT CREW OF AMERICAN,
RUSSIAN, AND JAPANESE ASTRONAUTS
IS BACK ON EARTH AFTER 115 DAYS
ON THE INTERNATIONAL SPACE
STATION.
THEIR SPACE CAPSULE PARACHUTED
INTO A REMOTE REGION OF
KAZAKHSTAN TODAY.
AMERICAN KATE RUBINS OF NASA AND
HER COUNTERPARTS WERE TAKEN OUT
OF THE CAPSULE AND EXAMINED
WHILE THEY READJUSTED TO
GRAVITY.
THEIR FOUR-MONTH MISSION
INCLUDED INSTALLING A DOCKING
STATION FOR COMMERCIAL SPACE
VEHICLES IN THE FUTURE.
A NEW TEAM OF ASTRONAUTS LED BY
AMERICAN ROBERT SHANE KIMBROUGH
ARRIVED LAST WEEK FOR THE 50TH
EXPEDITION TO THE SPACE STATION.
THIS IS "PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND"
SUNDAY.
>> Stewart: TOMORROW IS
HALLOWEEN, WHEN AMERICAN
CHILDREN-- AND MANY ADULTS--
DRESS UP IN COSTUMES , BUT THE
REACH OF HALLOWEEN CONTINUES TO
GROW AROUND THE WORLD.
BERLIN THIS WEEKEND SAW ITS
EIGHTH ANNUAL ZOMBIE WALK.
TOKYO TURNED A SHOPPING DISTRICT
INTO A PEDESTRIAN ZONE LAST
NIGHT...SO FAMILIES COULD REVEL
IN THEIR COSTUMES.
THERE WAS AT LEAST ONE DONALD
TRUMP.
>> I WANT TO BUILD A WALL!
>> Stewart: THEN THERE WAS
MEXICO CITY, WHERE THE
TRADITIONAL "DAY OF THE DEAD"
OCCURS LATER THIS WEEK. THE
CELEBRATION HAD A TWIST.
MORE THAN A 1,000 DANCERS,
ACROBATS, AND ACTORS PARADED
THROUGH THE STREETS OF MEXICO
CITY YESTERDAY IN ELABORATE
COSTUMES IN A CASE OF LIFE
IMITATING ART.
LAST YEAR'S JAMES BOND MOVIE,
"SPECTRE," OPENED WITH A "DAY OF
THE DEAD" PARADE FEATURING
FLOATS, PUPPETS, AND SKELETONS.
THE SEQUENCE, FILMED IN MEXICO
CITY, BECAME THE INSPIRATION FOR
YESTERDAY'S PARADE.
IT'S PART OF A CAMPAIGN BY THE
GOVERNMENT TO BRING TOURISTS TO
MEXICO FOR THE ANCIENT AZTEC"
DAY OF THE DEAD."
TRADITIONALLY, MEXICANS SET UP
ALTARS TO THE DEAD EACH NOVEMBER
1 AND 2, AND PAY TRIBUTE TO LOST
LOVED ONES.
TO SOME IN ATTENDANCE,
INTERMINGLING "DAY OF THE DEAD"
AND HALLOWEEN WAS INEVITABLE.
>> OF COURSE, IT IS BEING
CONFUSED WITH HALLOWEEN. BUT IT
DEPENDS ON US, THE MEXICAN
ADULTS, TO REVIVE THIS TRADITION
AND MAKE THEM UNDERSTAND IT.
>> Stewart: TO OTHERS,
INCORPORATING HALLOWEEN AND NEW
TRADITIONS COMES AT THE EXPENSE
OF OLDER RITUALS.
>> PEOPLE WEAR WOODEN MASKS,
DANCE ACROSS THE CITY, MAKE ARCS
AT THE GATES OF THE HOUSE, COOK
ZACAHUIL,A FORM OF TAMALE
AND ALL OF THAT.
IT IS REALLY COOL, VERY
TRADITIONAL, SUPER MEXICAN, BUT
NO ONE HAS HEARD ABOUT IT.
>> Stewart: TENS OF THOUSANDS OF
SPECTATORS WATCHED THE PARADE -
MANY IN COSTUME WHICH FEATURED
PROPS USED IN THE JAMES BOND
MOVIE.
>> RETURNING TO OUR LEAD STORY,
THE DEMOCRATIC LEADER OF THE US
SENATE HARRY REID IS ACCUSING
FBI DIRECTOR JAMES COMEY OF
A DOUBLE STANDARD AND POSSIBLY
VIOLATING A FEDERAL LAW
INFLUENCING AN ELECTION.
IN A LETTER SENT TO COMEY SUNDAY
EVENING, SENATOR REID SAYS HE
HAS MISHANDLED THE DISCLOSURE
OF REVIVING THE FBI PROBE
SAYING, QUOTE, THROUGH YOUR
PARTISAN ACTIONS YOU MAY HAVE
BROKEN THE LAW.
SITTING ON WHAT HE CALLED
EXPLOSIVE INFORMATION ABOUT
CLOSE TIES AND COORDINATION
BETWEEN DONALD TRUMP HIS
ADVISORS AND THE RUSSIAN
GOVERNMENT, END QUOTE.
THAT IS ALL FOR THIS EDITION OF
PBS NewsHOUR WEEKEND,
I'M ALISON STEWART, GOOD NIGHT.